The Emirates was never built for war.
Its entire social contract is to sell
certainty in an uncertain region, and
nowhere is that more true than in Dubai.
That's what turned it into one of the
world's fastest-growing hubs for
finance, trade, [music] and tourism.
Dubai alone is home to more than 81,000
millionaires, a number that's been
growing fast.
But, missiles and drones flying about is
bad for marketing, and [music]
Dubai's credibility is now being tested.
In a place like this, that matters
perhaps more than anything else. Once
that credibility starts to slip, so does
the system it's built on. Since February
28th, Iran has launched more than 350
missiles and nearly 2,000 drones at the
UAE, which is comparable to what has
been fired at Israel so far. However, in
the UAE, the reaction has been totally
different. Those with means are leaving.
They're booking commercial flights and
private jets out of the country. Hotels
are cutting prices, malls are quiet, and
parts of the city are no longer moving
with the same energy as before. Dubai's
real estate index has fallen by roughly
30% in a matter of days. Flight
schedules at Dubai International Airport
have been disrupted, and shipping
traffic into the UAE has begun to slow,
with dozens of vessels waiting offshore
near its ports.
None of this amounts to a collapse. The
Dubai model works. It works right up
until people start asking if it still
does.
AI is shaping this decade, and tech
giants are scrambling to hire the best
talent. [music] Outskill, today's
sponsor, helps you stay ahead by
building the skills that matter.
Outskill is an AI-focused education
platform built to help you actually use
AI in your day-to-day work, and it's
hosting a two-day live AI mastermind
workshop this Saturday and Sunday from
[music] 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time on both days.
More than 10 million people worldwide
have taken this training, earning it a
4.9 out of five rating on Trustpilot.
Normally, it's a paid workshop, but I've
partnered with Outskill to offer 1,000
free seats to Caspian Report viewers.
In just 16 hours, you'll go from rookie
to pro. The workshop brings together
insights from over 100 experts from
companies like Nvidia and Microsoft who
have worked through the AI boom. By the
end, you'll know how to build AI agents,
automate workflows, connect tools like
Sheets and Notion, and use AI to save
hours every week.
You'll also get free bonuses worth
$5,000, including a prompt Bible, a
roadmap to monetize AI, and a
personalized AI toolkit builder. And if
you sign up now, you'll get access to
their exclusive AI Survival Hackbook,
which is designed to keep you informed
of major AI shifts. Just click the link
in the description to claim your seat
before it's gone.
You can also join their WhatsApp group
for updates.
>> [music]
>> The United Arab Emirates is not a single
centralized economy. It's a federation
where different regions play different
roles. Abu Dhabi provides the
foundation. It holds the vast majority
of the country's oil reserves and
underwrites the system with its wealth.
Dubai, by contrast, built something else
on top of that foundation, a system that
doesn't run on oil, but on movement.
Capital moves through it, people move
through it, goods move through it. The
city's role is to connect, to
facilitate, to keep things flowing
efficiently.
That system depends on one thing,
predictability. Flights arrive on time,
cargo is processed quickly, and deals
are made without delay.
The expectation is not just that things
work, but that they work without
disruptions. Over time, that expectation
became the product. And as that
happened, Dubai began to sell not just
access, but certainty. This was a
game-changer. In a region often defined
by instability, it positioned itself as
the exception.
Aviation builds on that. Emirates
Airlines realized early on that roughly
2/3 of the world's population lies
within an 8-hour flight of Dubai, making
it an ideal connecting point. By leaning
into this advantage, Dubai International
Airport became a global hub where
passengers from Europe, Asia, and Africa
converge and move onward.
The same logic applies to trade. Dubai's
ports are designed for speed. Containers
arrive, are processed,
>> [music]
>> and leave again with minimal delay. That
efficiency is what attracts companies,
and it's what enabled the nearby Jebel
Ali Port to rank among the 10 busiest
container ports globally, handling tens
of millions of containers each year.
Then, there is the financial layer.
Dubai offers a business environment
where capital can move freely, with
relatively low taxes and fewer
restrictions than many other competing
hubs. That makes it attractive not just
as a place to operate, but as a place to
store and manage wealth. What's more,
each section of the economy reinforces
the other. Aviation feeds trade. Trade
supports finance. Finance attracts
people, and [music] people keep the
system running.
The whole system works because of the
public's confidence. People assume that
movement will remain uninterrupted, that
the city will remain safe, stable, and
insulated from its surroundings. That is
what allows the system to function as
smoothly as it does.
However, in just a few weeks, Dubai's
shine has been taken off.
This video, captured on February 28th,
was the moment people started
second-guessing the Dubai dream. An
Iranian projectile struck the seafront
side of the Fairmont Hotel, located on
the famed Palm [music] Islands, which is
home to mega-mansions and lavish hotels.
In the days following, Dubai's skyline
turned into a war zone. Here's another
video, captured on March 8th, showing an
Iranian Shahed drone flying over the
city beach with a fighter jet in hot
pursuit trying to shoot it down. And one
more from March 11th, which shows the
aftermath of a drone attack at Dubai
International Airport. Attacks like
[music] these have happened almost every
day. They've hit landmarks, logistics,
and all kinds of civilian
infrastructure.
Since the start of the war, nearly half
of Iran's missiles and drones have
targeted the UAE, with many focusing on
Dubai specifically. Most of the
projectiles are intercepted, but some
get through, and even when they don't,
the effect is still felt. Their
percussive booms have become part of the
city's soundscape. The scale of the
attacks is important, but so is the
choice of target. The UAE is not a
battlefield in the traditional sense,
but it is deeply embedded in America's
security umbrella that supports Israel.
It hosts military facilities, cooperates
on intelligence, and plays a central
role in regional logistics and finance.
From Tehran's perspective, that makes it
part of the same network.
So, by launching missiles and drones at
the UAE, Iran is not looking to defeat
it, but is [music] instead trying to
raise the cost of the war by using the
UAE as a pressure point without taking
on the United States head-on.
That's why missiles and drones are being
used to hit infrastructure and disrupt
logistics. It introduces uncertainty in
a place that depends on certainty.
However, conflicts happen. Cities get
attacked all the time. New York was hit
on 9/11, and London had the 7/7
bombings. And yet, both cities absorbed
the shock and kept going. But, Dubai is
built differently, and it's not clear
whether it can continue operating as it
has. A lot of that comes down to who
lives there and how easily they can walk
away.
In many ways, Dubai is a new kind of
city. It's fundamentally different from
anything that came before. For most of
history, people lived and worked in the
same place, and cities formed around
that basic fact. They evolved, rebuilt
after disasters, and went through ups
and downs, but their resiliency came
from their roots.
Being part of a city is more than just
living on a map. It carries a sense of
belonging and meaning.
>> [music]
>> These identities can be messy and
unequal, but they are nevertheless
substantial. For many people, the city
is how they understand who they are and
where they belong, and that's also
precisely what brings them back, what
makes them stay and rebuild even after
things fall apart.
Today, however, that source of identity
is no longer what it once was. It's
degrading. As people become more mobile
and move across countries and between
cities, they lose that sense of identity
that comes from land and place.
The UAE is the clearest example of this
shift, Dubai in particular. Its
population is overwhelmingly expatriate
with nearly nine in 10 residents holding
foreign passports. Some are
professionals from Britain and America,
but far more are guest workers from
South and Southeast Asia who keep the
city running. For both groups, the
connection to Dubai is often
transactional rather than organic. They
have no roots, no deep sense of
attachment to the place they live in.
Most expats who come to Dubai do so for
clear reasons. They come for
opportunities, higher incomes, a
tax-free lifestyle, the city's
attractions, and maybe the weather. And
that's precisely what makes it work. But
it also means people are constantly
running a cost-benefit analysis. Their
presence depends almost entirely on that
calculation. The moment the math begins
to shift, the reasoning that brought
them to the city starts to break down.
And that's the main problem with an
inorganic transactional city like Dubai.
It can grow quickly when conditions are
favorable, but it can shrink just as
fast when those conditions change.
For now, even though tens of thousands
of residents and tourists have already
left [music] Dubai, most expats are
still there, which goes to show that the
cost-benefit analysis still works in
their favor in spite of the hostilities.
The city's vast population of migrant
workers, meanwhile, doesn't have that
option at all. They remain not out of
attachment, but because they have no
real alternative. They're bound to the
same system that made Dubai work in the
first place. That said, the longer the
war drags on and the more projectiles
hit Dubai, the more it will chip away at
its transactional appeal and push
investors to look for safer
alternatives.
Once hostilities end, the Emirati
leadership will likely step up with new
incentives, bailout packages, visa
extensions, and whatever else it can to
retain capital and keep businesses
going. And many of those programs will
work, which in return will ensure
Dubai's survival. But survival is not
the same as thriving.
In the aftermath of this conflict,
something more subtle will have shifted.
The assumption of uninterrupted flow, of
seamless movement, of absolute
reliability will no longer be taken for
granted. Investors will begin to factor
in risks that previously did not exist,
and businesses will start to diversify
their exposure. Most of the capital will
stay, but some will quietly look
elsewhere. The Emirates will hold
together, but everything will point to
the same vulnerability. No city, no
matter how wealthy or well-connected,
can fully insulate itself from
geography.
I've been your host Shirvan from Caspian
Report. If you enjoy these videos,
consider supporting the channel on
Patreon, and click the bell icon so the
next one doesn't slip past you. Thank
you for your time and salaam.